abbey - n. a monastery ruled by an abbot
abide - v. dwell; inhabit or live in
abound - v. be abundant or plentiful; exist in large quantities
absence - n. the state of being absent
absorb - v. assimilate or take in
abstinence - n. practice of refraining from indulging an appetite especially alcohol
absurd - j. inconsistent with reason or logic or common sense
abundant - j. present in great quantity
abusive - j. characterized by physical or psychological maltreatment
academic - j. associated with school or learning
academy - n. a school for special training
accept - v. consider or hold as true
access - v. reach or gain access to
accessible - j. easily obtained
acclaim - n. enthusiastic approval
accommodate - v. provide with something desired or needed
accompany - v. go or travel along with
bore - n. a person who evokes boredom
botanical - j. of or relating to plants or botany
boycott - n. a group's refusal to have commercial dealings with some organization in protest against its policies
brass - n. an alloy of copper and zinc
breach - n. an opening (especially a gap in a dike or fortification)
broadcast - n. message that is transmitted by radio or television
brokerage - n. the business of a broker; charges a fee to arrange a contract between two parties
buffet - n. a meal set out on a buffet at which guests help themselves
bumper - n. a mechanical device consisting of bars at either end of a vehicle to absorb shock and prevent serious damage
bureau - n. an administrative unit of government
bureaucracy - n. non elected government officials
butt - v. to strike, thrust or shove against
contingent - j. possible but not certain to occur
continuous - j. continuing in time or space without interruption
contradiction - n. opposition between two conflicting forces or ideas
contradictory - j. unable for both to be true at the same time
contribution - n. a voluntary gift (as of money or service or ideas) made to some worthwhile cause
contributor - n. someone who contributes (or promises to contribute) a sum of money
convenience - n. the quality of being useful and convenient
conversion - n. the act of changing from one use or function or purpose to another
convertible - j. designed to be changed from one use or form to another
conviction - n. an unshakable belief in something without need for proof or evidence
corporate - j. of or belonging to a corporation
corps - n. a body of people associated together
corruption - n. destroying someone's (or some group's) honesty or loyalty; undermining moral integrity
cosmetic - j. serving an esthetic rather than a useful purpose
cosmopolitan - j. of worldwide scope or applicability
counsel - n. something that provides direction or advice as to a decision or course of action
counterpart - n. a person or thing having the same function or characteristics as another
courageous - j. able to face and deal with danger or fear without flinching
course - n. a connected series of events or actions or developments
courtesy - n. a courteous or respectful or considerate act
credible - j. appearing to merit belief or acceptance
critique - n. a serious examination and judgment of something
crusade - v. exert oneself continuously, vigorously, or obtrusively to gain an end or engage in a crusade for a certain cause or person; be an advocate for
crush - v. to compress with violence, out of natural shape or condition
curator - n. the custodian of a collection (as a museum or library)
curriculum - n. an integrated course of academic studies
cynical - j. believing the worst of human nature and motives; having a sneering disbelief in e.g. selflessness of others
cynicism - n. a cynical feeling of distrust
daring - n. the trait of being willing to undertake things that involve risk or danger
dismal - j. causing dejection
dismay - v. fill with apprehension or alarm; cause to be unpleasantly surprised
dismissal - n. the termination of someone's employment (leaving them free to depart)
disparity - n. inequality or difference in some respect
disregard - n. willful lack of care and attention
dissent - n. a difference of opinion
distant - j. separated in space or coming from or going to a distance
distinction - n. a distinguishing difference
distress - n. extreme physical pain
distrust - v. regard as untrustworthy; regard with suspicion; have no faith or confidence in
diverse - j. many and different
diversion - n. an activity that diverts or amuses or stimulates
diversity - n. noticeable heterogeneity
divert - v. turn aside; turn away from
document - n. writing that provides information (especially information of an official nature)
doe - n. mature female of mammals of which the male is called 'buck'
domain - n. territory over which rule or control is exercised
dominance - n. the state that exists when one person or group has power over another
dominant - j. exercising influence or control
dominate - v. be in control
domination - n. social control by dominating
donate - v. give to a charity or good cause
donor - n. person who makes a gift of property
drastic - j. forceful and extreme and rigorous
drought - n. a shortage of rainfall
dubious - j. open to doubt or suspicion
dynamics - n. the branch of mechanics concerned with the forces that cause motions of bodies
earnest - j. characterized by a firm and humorless belief in the validity of your opinions
evoke - v. call to mind
evolution - n. a process in which something passes by degrees to a different stage (especially a more advanced or mature stage)
exceed - v. be greater in scope or size than some standard
excellent - j. very good; of the highest quality
excerpt - n. a passage selected from a larger work
excess - j. more than is needed, desired, or required
exclude - v. prevent from being included or considered or accepted
excursion - n. a journey taken for pleasure
exempt - v. grant relief or an exemption from a rule or requirement to
existence - n. everything that exists anywhere
exit - v. move out of or depart from
exotic - j. strikingly strange or unusual
expand - v. become larger in size or volume or quantity
expansion - n. the act of increasing (something) in size or volume or quantity or scope
expect - v. regard something as probable or likely
expectancy - n. something expected (as on the basis of a norm)
expense - n. money spent to perform work and usually reimbursed by an employer
expertise - n. skillfulness by virtue of possessing special knowledge
explicit - j. precisely and clearly expressed or readily observable; leaving nothing to implication
explode - v. drive from the stage by noisy disapproval
exploit - v. use or manipulate to one's advantage
explosion - n. the act of exploding or bursting
explosive - n. a chemical substance that undergoes a rapid chemical change (with the production of gas) on being heated or struck
exposure - n. vulnerability to the elements; to the action of heat or cold or wind or rain
expressive - j. characterized by expression
extension - n. an addition to the length of something
extensive - j. large in spatial extent or range or scope or quantity
exterior - n. the outer side or surface of something
external - j. happening or arising or located outside or beyond some limits or especially surface
extradition - n. the surrender of an accused or convicted person by one state or country to another (usually under the provisions of a statute or treaty)
extraordinary - j. beyond what is ordinary or usual; highly unusual or exceptional or remarkable
extravagant - j. unrestrained, especially with regard to feelings
exuberant - j. joyously unrestrained
forecast - n. a prediction about how something (as the weather) will develop
foreign - j. relating to or originating in or characteristic of another place or part of the world
foresee - v. act in advance of; deal with ahead of time
formation - n. an arrangement of people or things acting as a unit
formidable - j. extremely impressive in strength or excellence
formula - n. directions for making something
forte - n. an asset of special worth or utility
forth - a. forward in time or order or degree
foster - v. promote the growth of
fragile - j. easily broken or damaged or destroyed
frantic - j. excessively agitated; distraught with fear or other violent emotion
fray - v. wear away by rubbing
frequency - n. the number of occurrences within a given time period
fringe - n. a social group holding marginal or extreme views
frivolous - j. not serious in content or attitude or behavior
frontier - n. a wilderness at the edge of a settled area of a country
fundamental - j. being or involving basic facts or principles
further - v. promote the growth of
futile - j. producing no result or effect
galaxy - n. (astronomy) a collection of star systems; any of the billions of systems each having many stars and nebulae and dust
gamble - v. take a risk in the hope of a favorable outcome
gauge - n. a measuring instrument for measuring and indicating a quantity such as the thickness of wire or the amount of rain etc.
generate - v. bring into existence
generic - j. applicable to an entire class or group
generosity - n. the trait of being willing to give your money or time
genesis - n. the first book of the Old Testament: tells of Creation; Adam and Eve; Cain and Abel
gesture - n. motion of hands or body to emphasize or help to express a thought or feeling
gigantic - j. so exceedingly large or extensive as to suggest a giant or mammoth
gist - n. the choicest or most essential or most vital part of some idea or experience
glimpse - n. a brief or incomplete view
glorious - j. having great beauty and splendor
grandeur - n. the quality of being magnificent or splendid or grand
grandiose - j. impressive because of unnecessary largeness or grandeur; used to show disapproval
grave - j. of great gravity or crucial import; requiring serious thought
gravity - n. a manner that is serious and solemn
grief - n. something that causes great unhappiness
grotesque - j. distorted and unnatural in shape or size; abnormal and hideous
grove - n. a small growth of trees without underbrush
guise - n. an artful or simulated semblance
hack - n. a mediocre and disdained writer
hale - j. exhibiting or restored to vigorous good health
handwriting - n. something written by hand
harbor - v. hold back a thought or feeling about
hazard - n. a source of danger; a possibility of incurring loss or misfortune
heir - n. a person who is entitled by law or by the terms of a will to inherit the estate of another
heritage - n. practices that are handed down from the past by tradition
hilarious - j. marked by or causing boisterous merriment or convulsive laughter
hollow - j. not solid; having a space or gap or cavity
homage - n. respectful deference
hostility - n. violent action that is hostile and usually unprovoked
humane - j. marked or motivated by concern with the alleviation of suffering
humanitarian - n. someone devoted to the promotion of human welfare and to social reforms
hush - v. become quiet or still; fall silent
hybrid - n. (genetics) an organism that is the offspring of genetically dissimilar parents or stock; especially offspring produced by breeding plants or animals of different varieties or breeds or species
hypocrisy - n. insincerity by virtue of pretending to have qualities or beliefs that you do not really have
hypothesis - n. a tentative insight into the natural world; a concept that is not yet verified but that if true would explain certain facts or phenomena
hysteria - n. excessive or uncontrollable fear
icon - n. a conventional religious painting in oil on a small wooden panel; venerated in the Eastern Church
ideology - n. an orientation that characterizes the thinking of a group or nation
illusion - n. an erroneous mental representation
intention - n. an act of intending; a volition that you intend to carry out
interact - v. act together or towards others or with others
interim - n. the time between one event, process, or period and another
intermediate - j. lying between two extremes in time or space or state
intervene - v. get involved, so as to alter or hinder an action, or through force or threat of force
intervention - n. the act of intervening (as to mediate a dispute, etc.)
intimacy - n. close or warm friendship
intricate - j. having many complexly arranged elements; elaborate
invasion - n. any entry into an area not previously occupied
inventive - j. (used of persons or artifacts) marked by independence and creativity in thought or action
investigator - n. a police officer who investigates crimes
investor - n. someone who commits capital in order to gain financial returns
invincible - j. incapable of being overcome or subdued
invoke - v. cite as an authority; resort to
involuntary - j. not subject to the control of the will
involve - v. engage as a participant
irony - n. incongruity between what might be expected and what actually occurs
irrational - j. not consistent with or using reason
irrelevant - j. having no bearing on or connection with the subject at issue
irresistible - j. impossible to resist; overpowering
irresponsible - j. showing lack of care for consequences
judgment - n. the capacity to assess situations or circumstances shrewdly and to draw sound conclusions
judicial - j. belonging or appropriate to the office of a judge
juicy - j. lucrative
junction - n. something that joins or connects
jurisdiction - n. (law) the right and power to interpret and apply the law
juror - n. someone who serves (or waits to be called to serve) on a jury
justification - n. something (such as a fact or circumstance) that shows an action to be reasonable or necessary
juvenile - j. of or relating to or characteristic of or appropriate for children or young people
ken - n. range of what one can know or understand
knight - n. originally a person of noble birth trained to arms and chivalry; today in Great Britain a person honored by the sovereign for personal merit
knit - n. needlework created by interlacing yarn in a series of connected loops using straight eyeless needles or by machine
lament - v. regret strongly
landmark - n. the position of a prominent or well-known object in a particular landscape
landscape - n. an expanse of scenery that can be seen in a single view
lapse - n. a break or intermission in the occurrence of something
laureate - n. someone honored for great achievements; figuratively someone crowned with a laurel wreath
lavish - j. very generous
lax - j. lacking in rigor or strictness
legacy - n. (law) a gift of personal property by will
legislative - j. relating to a legislature or composed of members of a legislature
legitimacy - n. lawfulness by virtue of being authorized or in accordance with law
legitimate - j. in accordance with recognized or accepted standards or principles
leisure - n. time available for ease and relaxation
lenient - j. not strict
levy - v. impose and collect
liable - j. held legally responsible
liberalism - n. a political orientation that favors social progress by reform and by changing laws rather than by revolution
lifelong - j. continuing through life
lifetime - n. the period during which something is functional (as between birth and death)
likelihood - n. the probability of a specified outcome
liking - n. a feeling of pleasure and enjoyment
liquor - n. an alcoholic beverage that is distilled rather than fermented
literacy - n. the ability to read and write
literal - j. avoiding embellishment or exaggeration (used for emphasis)
literature - n. creative writing of recognized artistic value
logic - n. the principles that guide reasoning within a given field or situation
logical - j. capable of thinking and expressing yourself in a clear and consistent manner
lovable - j. having characteristics that attract love or affection
lucrative - j. producing a sizeable profit
ludicrous - j. broadly or extravagantly humorous; resembling farce
lying - n. the deliberate act of deviating from the truth
militant - j. disposed to warfare or hard-line policies
militia - n. civilians trained as soldiers but not part of the regular army
miniature - j. being on a very small scale
minimize - v. make small or insignificant
ministry - n. a government department under the direction of a minister
minority - n. being or relating to the smaller in number of two parts
minute - j. infinitely or immeasurably small
misdemeanor - n. a crime less serious than a felony
missile - n. a rocket carrying a warhead of conventional or nuclear explosives
momentum - n. an impelling force or strength
monarchy - n. an autocracy governed by a monarch who usually inherits the authority
monastery - n. the residence of a religious community
monetary - j. relating to or involving money
monopoly - n. (economics) a market in which there are many buyers but only one seller
morale - n. the spirit of a group that makes the members want the group to succeed
morality - n. concern with the distinction between good and evil or right and wrong; right or good conduct
motto - n. a favorite saying of a sect or political group
mundane - j. concerned with the world or worldly matters; ordinary
municipal - j. relating to city government
muster - v. gather or bring together
myriad - n. a large indefinite number
myth - n. a traditional story accepted as history; serves to explain the world view of a people
naval - j. connected with or belonging to or used in a navy
necessary - j. absolutely essential
necessity - n. anything indispensable
network - n. an interconnected system of things or people
neutral - j. having no personal preference
nevertheless - a. despite anything to the contrary (usually following a concession)
noisy - j. full of or characterized by loud and nonmusical sounds
nomination - n. the condition of having been proposed as a suitable candidate for appointment or election
nominee - n. a politician who is running for public office
norm - n. a standard or model or pattern regarded as typical
notorious - j. known widely and usually unfavorably
nude - n. without clothing (especially in the phrase 'in the nude')
outcry - n. a loud utterance; often in protest or opposition
outrage - n. a feeling of righteous anger
outrageous - j. grossly offensive to decency or morality; causing horror
outright - a. without reservation or concealment
overhaul - v. make repairs, renovations, revisions or adjustments to
oversee - v. watch and direct
overthrow - n. the termination of a ruler or institution (especially by force)
overweight - n. the property of excessive fatnessom loss or danger
pretentious - j. making claim to or creating an appearance of (often undeserved) importance or distinction
prevalent - j. most frequent or common
prevention - n. the act of preventing
primer - n. an introductory textbook
primitive - j. belonging to an early stage of technical development; characterized by simplicity and (often) crudeness
principal - n. the educator who has executive authority for a school
principle - n. a basic truth or law or assumption
principled - j. based on or manifesting objectively defined standards of rightness or morality
pristine - j. completely free from dirt or contamination
privilege - n. a special advantage or immunity or benefit not enjoyed by all
probation - n. (law) a way of dealing with offenders without imprisoning them; a defendant found guilty of a crime is released by the court without imprisonment subject to conditions imposed by the court
probe - v. question or examine thoroughly and closely
procedure - n. a process or series of acts especially of a practical or mechanical nature involved in a particular form of work
proceed - v. move ahead; travel onward in time or space
productive - j. producing or capable of producing (especially abundantly)
profession - n. an occupation requiring special education (especially in the liberal arts or sciences)
professor - n. someone who is a member of the faculty at a college or university
profile - n. an outline of something (especially a human face as seen from one side)
progressive - j. favoring or promoting progress
prohibition - n. the action of prohibiting or inhibiting or forbidding (or an instance thereof)
prolific - j. bearing in abundance especially offspring
promenade - n. a public area set aside as a pedestrian walk
prominence - n. relative importance
prominent - j. having a quality that thrusts itself into attention
promoter - n. someone who is an active supporter and advocate
renowned - j. widely known and esteemed
repeal - n. cancel officially
reproduction - n. the act of making copies
requisite - n. anything indispensable
resemblance - n. similarity in appearance or external or superficial details
resent - v. feel bitter or indignant about
resist - v. withstand the force of something
resistance - n. the action of opposing something that you disapprove or disagree with
resistant - j. impervious to being affected
resort - v. have recourse to
resource - n. a source of aid or support that may be drawn upon when needed
restore - v. bring back into original existence, use, function, or position
resurrection - n. (New Testament) the rising of Christ on the third day after the Crucifixion
retrospect - n. contemplation of things past
retrospective - j. concerned with or related to the past
revelation - n. communication of knowledge to man by a divine or supernatural agency
revive - v. be brought back to life, consciousness, or strength
rhetoric - n. using language effectively to please or persuade
ridiculous - j. incongruous; absurd; nonsensical
rigorous - j. demanding strict attention to rules and procedures
robust - j. sturdy and strong in form, constitution, or construction
rue - n. sadness associated with some wrong done or some disappointment
rural - j. living in or characteristic of farming or country life
rustic - j. characteristic of the fields or country
sacrifice - v. kill or destroy
savage - v. criticize harshly or violently
scholarly - j. characteristic of learning or studying
scope - n. an area in which something acts or operates or has power or control
script - n. a written version of a play or other dramatic composition; used in preparing for a performance
secession - n. formal separation from an alliance or federation
secondary - j. not of major importance
secrecy - n. the trait of keeping things secret
secular - j. not concerned with or devoted to religion
seize - v. take hold of; grab
selective - j. characterized by very careful or fastidious choices
seminar - n. any meeting for an exchange of ideas
specter - n. a ghostly appearing figure
spectrum - n. a broad range of related objects or ideas or activities
speculate - v. consider in an idle or casual way and with an element of doubt or without sufficient reason to reach a conclusion
spontaneous - j. said or done without having been planned or written in advance
static - j. showing little if any change
stature - n. high level of respect gained by impressive development or achievement
statute - n. an act passed by a legislative body
stealth - n. avoiding detection by moving carefully
stimulate - v. cause to be alert and energetic
stringent - j. demanding strict attention to rules and procedures
submission - n. something (manuscripts or architectural plans and models or estimates or works of art of all genres etc.) submitted for the judgment of others (as in a competition)
subsequent - j. following in time or order
subsidiary - j. functioning in a supporting capacity
substantive - j. having a firm basis in reality and being therefore important, meaningful, or considerable
subtle - j.  difficult to detect or grasp by the mind or analyze
successor - n. a person who follows next in order
summary - n. a brief statement that presents the main points in a concise form
superb - j. of surpassing excellence
superficial - j. concerned with or comprehending only what is apparent or obvious; not deep or penetrating emotionally or intellectually
suppress - v. reduce the incidence or severity of or stop
surround - v. extend on all sides of simultaneously; encircle
suspense - n. excited anticipation of an approaching climax
suspension - n. an interruption in the intensity or amount of something
suspicious - j. openly distrustful and unwilling to confide
sympathetic - j. expressing or feeling or resulting from sympathy or compassion or friendly fellow feelings; disposed toward
symphony - n. a large orchestra; can perform symphonies
systematic - j. characterized by order and planning
tactics - n. the branch of military science dealing with detailed maneuvers to achieve objectives set by strategy
tangible - j. perceptible by the senses especially the sense of touch
taxation - n. the imposition of taxes; the practice of the government in levying taxes on the subjects of a state
technique - n. skillfulness in the command of fundamentals deriving from practice and familiarity
technology - n. the practical application of science to commerce or industry
telescope - n. a magnifier of images of distant objects
temporary - j. not permanent; not lasting
tendency - n. a characteristic likelihood of or natural disposition toward a certain condition or character or effect
tense - j. taut or rigid; stretched tight
tentative - j. unsettled in mind or opinion
tenure - v. give life-time employment to
terminal - j. being or situated at an end
territorial - j. displaying territoriality; defending an area from intruders
testament - n. a profession of belief
transition - v. make or undergo a transition (from one state or system to another)
translate - v. restate (words) from one language into another language
transmission - n. the act of sending a message; causing a message to be transmitted
transparent - j. transmitting light; able to be seen through with clarity
transplant - n. the act of removing something from one location and introducing it in another location
tremendous - j. extraordinarily large in size or extent or amount or power or degree
tribune - n. a protector of the people
trinity - n. the union of the Father and Son and Holy Ghost in one Godhead
triple - v. increase threefold
trivial - j. of little substance or significance
truthful - j. expressing or given to expressing the truth
turmoil - n. a violent disturbance
typical - j. exhibiting the qualities or characteristics that identify a group or kind or category
ubiquitous - j. being present everywhere at once
ultimate - j. furthest or highest in degree or order; utmost or extreme
unanimous - j. acting together as a single undiversified whole
uncommon - j. not common or ordinarily encountered; unusually great in amount or remarkable in character or kind
unconscious - j. not conscious; lacking awareness and the capacity for sensory perception as if asleep or dead
undermine - v. destroy property or hinder normal operations
unique - j. the single one of its kind
unlimited - j. having no limits in range or scope
unprecedented - j. having no previous example; novel
urban - j. located in or characteristic of a city or city life
urgency - n. an urgent situation calling for prompt action
usage - n. the act of using
utility - n. the quality of being of practical use
vacuum - n. a region that is devoid of matter
valid - j. well grounded in logic or truth or having legal force
variation - n. an artifact that deviates from a norm or standard
vegetarian - n. eater of fruits and grains and nuts; someone who eats no meat or fish or (often) any animal products
vegetation - n. all the plant life in a particular region or period
venerable - j. impressive by reason of age
verify - v. confirm the truth of
version - n. something a little different from others of the same type
vertical - j. at right angles to the plane of the horizon or a base line
veto - n. the power or right to prohibit or reject a proposed or intended act (especially the power of a chief executive to reject a bill passed by the legislature)
vigorous - j. strong and active physically or mentally
violation - n. an act that disregards an agreement or a right
vista - n. the visual percept of a region
visual - j. relating to or using sight
vitality - n. an energetic style
vogue - n. the popular taste at a given time
volatile - j. liable to lead to sudden change or violence
vulnerable - j. capable of being wounded or hurt
warrant - v. stand behind and guarantee the quality, accuracy, or condition of
wherever - a. where in the world
wholly - a. to a complete degree or to the full or entire extent ('whole' is often used informally for 'wholly')
woo - v. seek someone's favor
zeal - n. excessive fervor to do something or accomplish some end
